AXIS CHANGED: target only (identity -> r6_gls_rotated_frame, LEARNED). Every other axis keeps
the parent's impl and params verbatim. The crossover reasoning for why nothing else moved is at
the bottom, and it is a mechanical compatibility argument, not a preference.

THE MECHANISM

The target becomes a learned, exactly invertible, volume-preserving linear frame:

    make_target(z_obs, z_prev) = S . R(z_obs)
    to_obs(pred,   z_prev)     = R^-1(pred / S)

R is a stack of 12 Givens-rotation layers. Each layer holds a fixed random pairing of the 768
coordinates (drawn once from a fixed seed, stored as buffers, identical in every process and on
every seed) and one learned angle per pair; a layer rotates each pair by its angle. R^-1 replays
the layers in reverse order with negated angles, in closed form. S is a diagonal whose log-scales
are 0.35*tanh(raw) and then mean-centred, so sum(log s) = 0 exactly: det(S) = 1 and det(R) = 1,
so the whole map is volume preserving and cannot collapse. All angles and log-scales start at
zero, so at initialisation the target is exactly z_obs and this candidate is exactly its parent;
the frame moves only where the training loss pays for it. 5376 parameters, no matrices, so the
optimiser routes them to plain AdamW (they match neither the (key_d, .) Muon signature nor the
(D,D) spectral-cap signature).

WHY IT SHOULD MOVE THE OBJECTIVE

The genome's objective already reweights squared error per coordinate by a detached inverse-error
precision, clamped and renormalised to mean one. That is weighted least squares: an axis-aligned
metric. It is axis aligned in whatever frame the target happens to live in, and the frame it
currently lives in is an accident of the frozen encoder plus per-dimension standardisation. Per-
dimension standardisation equalises marginal variances but leaves the correlation structure
untouched, so the direction that separates a content-bearing observation from the empty-output
boilerplate observation, and the directions that separate one file's content from another's, are
oblique to the coordinate axes. A diagonal reweighting cannot express a preference for an oblique
direction; a rotation of the target frame can, and composing the two gives a full anisotropic
metric M = R^T S^2 W R in observation space. Moving from a diagonal weighting to a rotated one is
exactly the generalized-least-squares correction for correlated residuals (Aitken): with
correlated errors, diagonal weighting is consistent but inefficient, and the efficient weighting
is the inverse residual covariance, which is not diagonal in the given basis. The claim is that
letting the objective's own equalising precision act on a learned basis buys the compositional
read the error budget that currently leaks into directions along which no two candidate contents
differ, which is the part of the prediction error that cannot change any retrieval ranking.

WHY THIS PARTICULAR TRANSFORM AND NOT A RICHER ONE

Three properties were required and each ruled something out.

1. It must be a global bijection of z_obs alone, with no dependence on z_prev. A residual /
   control-variate target z_obs - g(z_prev) is the obvious move on this axis and it is the wrong
   move here: roughly forty percent of the training steps produce an empty-output observation, so
   their z_obs are numerically identical and the objective deliberately collapses them into one
   exact-equivalence class carrying one unit of measure. Subtracting anything that varies with
   z_prev shatters that class into dozens of rows that are then mutual negatives, reallocating a
   large share of the loss onto a distinction that has nothing to do with which content is where.
   Any per-row-varying transform has this defect; only a global one does not. Verified on
   synthetic duplicates: under the transformed target the maximum distance inside a duplicate
   class is exactly 0.0, so the objective's equivalence quotient, its duplicate ring mask and its
   class measures are bit-preserved.

2. The determinant must be one by construction rather than by penalty, because the transform is
   trained jointly with the prediction and a free scale is a free loss reduction. Mean-centred
   log-scales and rotations give det = 1 with no reg term doing the work. Measured slogdet of the
   assembled 768x768 map with randomly perturbed parameters: sign +1, log |det| = 2.4e-5.

3. The distortion must be bounded. The scale range is capped so s lies in about [0.5, 2.0]; the
   rotation is an isometry. So the worst-case metric distortion the target itself can introduce
   is about 4x in squared distance, on top of the objective's own 16x precision range. A NICE-
   style nonlinear coupling would also be det-1 and exactly invertible but its distortion is not
   bounded, and an unbounded warp trained against a contrastive loss has an obvious bad attractor
   (blow up the trivial empty-versus-content direction, flatten content-versus-content). Bounding
   it is the difference between a metric correction and a new failure mode.

WHAT I EXPECT TO SEE, AND WHAT WOULD FALSIFY IT

Unmeasured: I cannot run the harness from the jail, so no performance number here is measured.
Prediction: comp_ca above the parent's +0.0262, with the native pick rate up and the swapped-arm
hold rate not up by as much - the transform is a global bijection, so it cannot manufacture the
role-swap asymmetry by itself; it can only make the content-carrying signal cheaper to fit.
Diagnostics that would show the mechanism was live rather than inert: the learned angles should
leave zero by a substantial fraction of a radian, and the log-scale spread should saturate toward
its tanh bound. If the angles stay near zero the candidate is a null result and the identity
frame was already right. Falsification of the reasoning, not just the result: comp_ca at or below
parent WITH large learned angles would say the frame moved somewhere the retrieval geometry does
not want, and the most likely such place is the trivial empty-output-versus-content direction -
the contrastive term rewards expanding directions with a high ratio of between-target spread to
prediction error, and that direction has the highest such ratio in the data by a wide margin. The
bounded scale range limits how much of the loss it can capture but does not forbid it. That is
the single biggest risk in this proposal and it is not designed out, only capped.

CROSSOVER: WHAT I TOOK AND WHAT I REFUSED

Partner design: backchain pointer resolution, whose distinguishing parts are the r24 arch (a
K-hop backward chase over a follow matrix of command addresses) and the r2 dual-address move
transport head. Parent: the r25 role-addressed transport store with the r18 transition
forward-model consistency head. Both lineages already carry the same idea - resolve a read by
following a chain of address matches to the observation that was deposited - implemented once as
a chase over a follow matrix and once as a store whose destination write carries whatever the
source address currently holds. Only one can occupy the arch slot, and I kept the parent's,
because the parent's head trains the very transition operator that r25's transport store calls
inside its write path, so the pair is one mechanism, and because the partner's arch derives from
a class this jail does not grant, which makes a hand-merged arch a guess rather than a
construction.

The partner's head is the part I actively refused, and the reason is specific to this proposal:
r2_dualaddress_move_transport's auxiliary loss runs an InfoNCE on pred_cmd, the net's command-
position output, against raw observation embeddings drawn from the batch. Under a non-identity
target the net's output does not live in observation space - it lives in the target frame - so
that aux would pull the prediction toward S.R(z) and z at the same time and the two objectives
would fight over the same tensor. The parent's head has no such coupling: its aux applies the
arch's internal transition operator to raw observation embeddings and never touches the
prediction, so it is invariant to the target frame. That is the crossover judgement - between two
plausible transport heads, the target axis can only be exercised behind the one whose auxiliary
supervision is expressed in an internal space rather than in the prediction space. Objective and
batcher were kept at the parent's because in each case the parent's impl is the partner's plus a
strictly added device (the exact-target equivalence quotient over r12; the depth tilt over r6),
and the equivalence quotient is precisely the invariant this target transform was designed to
preserve. Optim and stream are identical in both parents.

CORRECTNESS NOTES

Shapes: make_target and to_obs operate on the trailing dimension only and were exercised on
[0,768], [1,768], [3,768] and [2,5,768]; nothing indexes a sequence, so the odd-length scored
layout [cmd_0, obs_0, ..., cmd_r] with no trailing observation cannot reach a degenerate branch -
the transform never sees the layout, only the flattened rows the harness masks out for it.
z_prev is accepted and ignored, including the all-zero first-step case, so the inverse holds
there too. Roundtrip to_obs(make_target(x)) with strongly perturbed parameters: max absolute
error 1.4e-6, relative 2.4e-7 in float32. Every parameter takes gradient from the training loss
through make_target, and additionally through reg(), which is added to the loss each step; the
det-1 diagonal keeps the map non-isometric so the parameters take gradient even under a plain
MSE objective, where a pure rotation would have had exactly zero gradient. Every parameter
reaches the scored prediction through to_obs, which is applied to the read-position output before
retrieval. Parameters and buffers are cast to the incoming tensor's device and dtype at use, so
the module is safe if the instrument applies to_obs to predictions that have already been moved
to CPU while the net is on GPU. No attribute shadows an nn.Module internal (frame_d, n_layers,
n_pairs, rot_width, angles, log_scale_raw, perm_i, unperm_i). Cost measured on CPU: 19 ms per
call on a [640,768] batch, twelve layers of gather / pair-rotate / scatter, no matmul - a fixed
additive cost per step that does not scale with the model.
