AXES CHANGED: stream only (baseline_interleave -> r7_cupgen_dualrail_address).
Every other axis keeps the parent's impl and params verbatim. The mechanism is a pure
re-coding of command tokens; it adds no parameters, so nothing else has to move with it.

WHAT THE PARENT ACTUALLY DOES, AND WHY THE STREAM IS ITS BOTTLENECK

The parent resolves a chain of moves with a ledger, not with layers. Its arch scores every
step j against every earlier step i by <src_j, dst_i>, weights that by how much unconsumed
content still sits at i's destination, and carries content as a coefficient row over earlier
observation embeddings, so an arbitrarily deep chain resolves in one causal pass. Its head
runs a second router of the same shape. Both build their addresses from ONE tensor: the raw
command token, read at tok[:, 0::2]. Both derive a source address and a destination address
from that single vector through one shared linear map read under two additive role biases
before a GELU, then two key maps initialised nearly equal, then unit-normalisation.

The parent hands that machinery a mean-pooled sentence embedding. For
  mv /tmp/w/cups/etc/ssh/sshd_config.cfg.7 /tmp/w/cups/etc/ssh/sshd_config.cfg.8
the two paths differ by one digit and are averaged into one vector, so "the address I take
from" and "the address I write to" are close to the same direction and a linear role read
cannot pull them apart. The ledger is a good chain solver being fed addresses it cannot
separate. My claim is that the parent's +0.0562 is what that solver achieves on unusable
addresses, and that the cheapest large gain available on this genome is to make the two roles
linearly separable in the token itself.

THE MECHANISM

Command tokens only; observation tokens, the target space and the interleave layout are
untouched. Coordinates 0-191 carry the source address, 192-383 the destination address,
index for index, both OVERWRITING the standardized embedding there; 384-415 carry eight form
flags, 416-447 a verb hash, and the embedding survives scaled by 0.75 on 448-767. Both
address blocks are written by the same function of a path string, so token[192+k] equals
token[k] exactly when destination equals source, and one linear map reads either role
identically - which is the structure the arch's shared addr_in / role-bias / near-equal
src_key,dst_key initialisation is built to exploit, and the separation its head's train-time
read-versus-destination hinge is asking for.

An address is three aligned rails rather than one hash, because the data has two different
notions of "where":
  rail ID  (96 dims, gain 1.0)  balanced Rademacher hash of the whole normalized path
  rail CUP (64 dims, gain 0.5)  the same hash of the path with a trailing ".<digits>" removed
  rail GEN (32 dims, gain 0.5)  row g of a 32-point Sylvester-Hadamard matrix, zero when g=0
In the real trajectories every move renames its destination to <cup>.<k> with k a counter that
runs 1,2,3,... once per sequence (verified over the 24 jail trajectories: 172 moves, no k
repeated, max 8). So a location wears many names over one chain, and the three rails say both
things at once: ID matches only an exact path, CUP matches every name one cup ever wore, GEN
separates the generations of one cup exactly - Walsh/CDMA spreading codes, where distinct
symbols share the same coordinates and are exactly orthogonal, so the same 32-symbol alphabet
recurs in every trajectory and on every held-out image instead of each path being a fresh
random direction the learned 768->192->64 key maps have never seen.
Measured on the 24 jail trajectories with the arch's own normalisation: all 391 true chain
edges (src string of j equals dst string of i) score cosine > 0.999, and the worst false edge
in any trajectory is 0.333 (a same-cup pair, which is the graded fallback the rails intend,
not a collision). Over 2000 synthetic path pairs: exact 1.000 +/- 0.000, same cup 0.132,
same generation 0.068, unrelated 0.000. That is the geometry the ledger needs: an exact
identity match when a name is unique, and a soft same-cup prior when it is not, which is
exactly the case its capacity-depletion and recency arbitration were built to settle.
Every hash pattern carries exactly as many +1 as -1 entries (permute a balanced base vector
by a shake_256-derived ordering), so an address shifts neither the token mean nor the token
variance - DC-free line coding, so that the LayerNorm the address extractor opens with keeps
a fixed operating point whatever paths a command names, and the two role reads sit at the
same point on the GELU.
The eight flags name occupancy semantics rather than surface form: source present, explicit
destination, mv (the source is EMPTIED), plain read, ls, ">" (destination overwritten, source
RETAINED), ">>" (appended, source retained), destination distinct from source. Those are
precisely the take / write / consume decisions the ledger gates have to make, and they sit in
overwritten coordinates instead of superposed on the embedding, because a binary signal read
at 0.75 against unit-variance embedding noise is a signal the gate has to fight for.

WHY IT SHOULD MOVE comp_ca AND NOT SOMETHING ELSE

comp_ca is a paired difference between the native chain and a chain in which two contents swap
their moves. The read command string is identical in both arms and my coding is a pure
function of one command string, so the token at the scored read position is bit-identical
across arms (checked) and nothing about the coding can key the answer to the read location.
What differs across arms is only which move tokens name which paths - so the only way this
coding can raise the difference is by making the ledger's src/dst matching resolve the chain
that actually happened. A predictor that keys on the read location still cancels to exactly
zero per window; a predictor that keys on move-order position still does not, and I am not
claiming the change is immune to that - if the gain shows up with shortcut_leaning up, the
hypothesis is refuted rather than confirmed.

FALSIFIABLE EXPECTATIONS

1. comp_ca rises above the parent's +0.0562, driven mainly by the d4+ bucket, where the parent
   has the most chain to resolve. If d3 moves and d4+ does not, the addresses got sharper but
   the ledger is not composing, and the mechanism story is wrong.
2. Failure mode I would accept as a clean refutation: comp_ca at or below the parent with the
   native pick rate UP. That would mean the coding helps read the last hop while the ledger
   still cannot chain, i.e. the win is location-keyed and cancels.
3. Failure mode I would accept as a cost: overall latent MSE / retrieval on ordinary system
   reads degrades, because 448 of 768 embedding coordinates are overwritten. I kept 320
   embedding coordinates at 0.75 for that reason, and the address rails encode path identity
   exactly, which is what a next-observation prediction on a re-read file needs; but if the
   base measurements fall while comp_ca does not rise, the split point is too aggressive.

No performance number here is measured. I cannot run the harness from the jail; the geometry,
purity, alignment, role-swap invariance, gradient reachability and speed numbers above are
from the jail's own arch module and the jail's own trajectories on CPU, and none of them is a
score. Checked by construction: code_cmds is pure per command (no cross-command state, so
prefix-causality is structural), collate writes command tokens only through code_cmds so the
instrument reproduces them exactly, leakage_ok returns True against the real parent arch,
every one of the arch's 95 parameters still receives a nonzero finite gradient, the odd-length
[cmd_0, obs_0, ..., cmd_r] layout forwards cleanly, and code_cmds costs about 1.6 ms per 72
sequences warm, so nothing here endangers the step budget.
